apparently we are live
on youtube uh welcome to the ipld weekly
sync for
it would be the 11th of january 2021
and i'm going to go first with the
weekly update
okay so my week was mainly around
seabor i finally finished up the
seaboard library i was i've been
tinkering with for the last
year um
so that's on that's published now and
i've got a
pr up for ipld dax cbor the javascript
the the the newer javascript codec
and uh that so that's poor quest 13 in
that library and that has a bunch of
notes about what's
what changes are coming in with it so
it's breaking because there's more
strictness
um it's the main thing there um
so and there's some performance notes
there as well
um i did also add a new a second commit
yesterday
for the nan and infinity
thing which is the next item i have
there's a poor question specs repo for
number 344 which
um takes that discussion about nan and
infinity and negative infinity
and says that we're ruling it out from
the data model and there's some
additional clarification in
clarificationing clarifying words about
um number types integer and float
appreciate some eyes on that one but
once that's
merged if we agree that that's the way
forward
and and to be honest my that i know
there were some strong thoughts in that
original discussion
i i'm a little bit on the fence about
this um
but i i'm fine with just locking it down
and
being done with it um
some experimenting i was doing yesterday
uh
i found that the that the uh even though
cbor
reserves specific tokens for these three
things
nan infinity and negative infinity um
because it's
faithfully decoding
ieee 754 it will also decode any of the
other
bit layouts that translate into these
things
so there's not just this is not just one
way to get these things through seaboard
there's a lot of ways uh particularly
dan because nan really
i think it's just a fallback for
everything that's not
a float a proper float so that
so it's like anything that says it's a
float
in sibor that can't be properly decoded
into uh mantissa an exponent
in a in a clean way will end up as nan
and then there's a whole slew of values
that will end up with infinity and
negative infinity as well
so we're talking about a very wide range
of
of bytes that will turn into these
things
it's so we're with these we're a long
way from the
one data one byte layout ideal for codex
so that alone i guess is is a reason to
pull the trigger on this one
um i haven't looked at go and if goes
to being a sloppiest javascript i
wouldn't be surprised if go was a little
bit more
uh bounded than javascript
javascript tends to throw nan around
pretty easily
um and
lastly there's another pull request on
the specs repo three
four five which is additional strictness
clarifications on dagger or just
additional little details as i you know
as my head gets deeper into this space
there's more things like
you know like the the tag number
you can represent the tag number in the
same way as any other integer
which is you could do it as the smallest
possible or you could make it 64 bits
and it's still the same number so we
could say tag 42
and represent that as 64 bits
so there's even a lot of ways to
represent
tag 42 not a lot of ways there's a few
ways to represent it
um so just clarifying we only export the
one tag
42 and it must be
in eight bytes eight bits and this is
what it will be
so just yeah crazy
anyway that's me um
daniel
cool so i'll be brief today um
i spoke to add in a couple of hours ago
because they're having
issues with badger they have a driver
for go ipfs for that
data store and
they do this funky thing where currently
pl uses version one
and upstream release version two and
they're about to release version three
and each one of those releases does not
follow sember so they break
backwards compatibility whenever they
want which is fun
and what pl did was they created
separate repos for version one and two
so they went to modify unify all that
and they were worried about how that
would look for modules
so i think we came up with the way
that's gonna be okay
at least it's not gonna be like we're
gonna say essentially a single repo
and then version one tracks badger
version one version two
tracks badger version two and so on if
you use that
and then you go get an update something
might break because badger might have
might have broken
but there's no way you can work around
that because if upstream breaks then
what do you do
um so anyway i think as long as they
put a warning like hey you know be
careful when you update this
or badger because it's not it doesn't
follow semver uh i think that's an
okay trade-off and i see my face palming
[Music]
i just like i don't know why you have
major releases if you don't use it as a
signal for breaking changes
like like you have an infinite number of
numbers like just
[ __ ] use them like what is the point
of having these big version ranges in
major
when you're not using them to signal
anything other than like
let's have a party and get a cake [ __ ]
you like
i detect i detect somebody who doesn't
work with go on a regular basis
go made it super hateful to change your
versions so
yeah i mean to be honest i don't think
that's why badger
and i think that's why they do it this
way i think they just hate people
because you look at their main product
which is called
uh d graph i think and the versions are
literally called version 20.07.3
and that's like a calendar year like
july and then the 0.3 is just because
they like the free i guess
um so i love that they're they're using
this for
for years and then they're just like we
just forgot that y2k happened we're just
gonna use two digits for
the first number so technically you're
not you're only allowed to break stuff
on january 1st and then it's over you're
not you don't allow it for 12 months
anyway sorry for the tangent anyway um
i also liked what eric did with um the
new fluent packaging for
ipld prime so i had some thoughts on
that but i didn't want to over
we decided not to overwrite my my
changes
on top of his so i published a pr that
essentially exposes a new package that's
quite similar but has some changes
and the benchmarks are pretty much a
wash so even though
i think the api is a little bit nicer
the performance is about the same
i also started writing the ci best
practices for go dog that i've been
talking about for a long time
so i spoke with michael and eric and we
decided we're just gonna stick a
markdown file into the ipld repo
and then we can just start referencing
that for our team
and then if it works well and other
teams like ipfs want to
start following that as well that's also
fine and i think that's also going to be
good for martin who's
doing stuff for automating uh the
distribution of
github actions so at least for go that
can that document can be used
as reference for like this is why you
should do this or that
and so on um
i also started looking at file coins
hemmed
and especially all its tests because if
i want to be compatible with that
i want to ideally be able to run all its
tests against my hemmed implementation
but it's unclear to me what would be the
easiest way to do that because they do
have quite a lot of tests
but they're pretty closely tied to their
node implementation
so it's not clear to me what's the
easiest way if anybody has thoughts
please let me know
and i also did a bunch of patches to
reduce the amount of vet warnings
that the ipld prime code generator
produces
um i've only removed about 500 out of 3
but it's better than it sounds because a
lot of them are generated so
um i would say i'm about halfway done
and that's it for me
i had a couple comments there um on the
just quickly on the quip thing um
one of the comments i made on the
original i started writing this up but i
just i thought
it'd be easy just to talk about it on
the original quip
one of the things i commented was that
um as a as a user
it it's kind of nice that you as as
you're processing
you get to see when it errors out so
that if you have some conditional logic
then you can you can deal with that like
mostly you would just ignore the error
and just then deal with the top like
you've done in your version
but there might be cases where you say
well if i get to this point
and there's an error i really don't want
to do this thing over here because it's
not item potent and it's
you know it's going to do something that
i can't back out of
um so i really need to know if this is
going to if this is if this thing's
successful then i want to do this if
it's not successful i definitely don't
want to do this
like you might want to garbage collect
your data storage
thing and it so it's like it's like a
transactional thing
the way you're doing it now where you're
bubbling the area up to the top and you
have an opportunity to see where it is
so it's more classically fluent
um you sort of lose that opportunity
that was my only comment on that and i
don't really know if it's a big deal
because
if that if you were in that situation
then maybe you wouldn't use that package
anyway
and maybe you expect that most usages
where there is an error would result in
some kind of panic anyway
so that was just my feedback about that
take
take it as you will and
um i've got another comment about the
other hemp but
any response to that i was just gonna
briefly say
i think it should i haven't tried but i
think it should be possible just because
the interfaces
are essentially the same as eric's minus
the error pointer
so you could have a bit of code
like three levels down that just
manually uses the ipld prime
apis that just return errors and then if
if you want to bubble up anything you
just panic like the quip
like my api does and could you nest them
as well
so you do multiple instances of singing
yeah okay
uh with the hampton thing maybe the best
way to do it is
um i know some of those a lot of the
actually a lot of the tests are really
uh focused on very minute details
but what you could possibly do for some
of them at least
is run the test and
print out a um a cid roots the id
and then that's what you care about so
you could run the same logic
get to the same cid all good and there's
a few tests that i know
rely on root cid i think um
and then there's a bunch of tests in
there as well that i did that actually
check your
your byte layout manually um
so that might be useful too but i would
say root cid gives you everything you
need really
if you don't get the same root cid then
you didn't get the same form
so maybe that's it
yep sounds good thank you
michael you're up next uh
okay hold on
okay um all right yeah so
a bunch of ip sql stuff um
so yeah you can now um import most csvs
um and get a sql database out of them
you can then
export that database as a car file you
can do sql queries and export
a car file for just the query so
um literally like a tiny subset to just
satisfy that query so basically
we have merkel proofs for sql queries
now um which is
beautiful um i also added encryption
uh we'll talk about kind of the approach
to encryption
and um at the end of the call we'll do a
bigger thing on like
we may actually just make this the way
to do fld block layer encryption
so i'll talk about that a little bit
later but you can export uh
encrypted car files for any of these
things as well and then
do queries over uh decrypting those car
files
um and you can actually take that car
file and pin it in ipfs
and replicate around the encrypted graph
as well so it's it's pretty slick um
yeah that was that was some pretty fun
stuff um i also
added a command line interface for doing
uh mutations like create and insert and
all that kind of stuff um
so yeah if you sequel's really coming
along um i think that the next set of
things that i'll do will probably be
um a key value store like a key value
table basically
so leveraging the same sort of column
indexing based on schema
but over a key value store and then
having the columns use
um paths as the names of each column
so that we can in basically put
arbitrary dags into the key value store
and then the traversals will work
and then you can just query them with
regular sql because these column indexes
will normalize it
so that'll be pretty hot um
yeah and then uh the last thing is
i was talking about cola on
saturday and so mikola is at this like
game this chinese game
uh where they're encoding all of their
game data
as uh json and these like custom
data structures um and but they're just
using and they're using fpfs but they're
just encoding everything as raw bytes
and then they're just sort of like
talking about the cids for these raw
bytes
and we're talking about sort of like
some of the things that he wants to do
and i was understanding like how his
build pipeline works
and it turns out that like actually they
rebuild all of their game assets every
time they change anything
and so they have this like massive build
pipeline that they have to rerun that's
like really expensive
and because they because they have
offline cases and stuff
the whole build pipeline exists in
browser as well and so a lot of it's
already in webassembly
and so he like already is like halfway
to a webassembly build system
that does stuff with ipld and we started
talking about like
what would be some of the base level
primitives that he would need
to start like just referencing these
webassembly functions
in the data itself and potentially doing
more lazy rebuilding of things
um and maybe not rebuilding if unless
you need to and stuff like that
um and so there's a link in in the notes
um but i wrote up a sketch of kind of
like the lowest level primitive that we
would want to use
uh for this and it's it's just a really
like simple sebor object
with a library on top of it um where i'm
just doing like
you know you want to use an fbl for like
you know big pieces of binary and stuff
like that but um
it's an interesting like i think that
we've really been overthinking it
like trying to come up with the entire
sort of host environment for how these
webassembly functions get called
like let's just let somebody else deal
with that like all we need to do is like
link to binary that people will compile
into webassembly and then figure out how
to run
and then his input will be this other
cid
of like the output data right like it's
and then you can have multiple systems
sort of tooled on top of this if that
makes sense um
so that was kind of a cool thing too but
yeah we'll i'll table the encryption
stuff until we can get to it after
everybody's done their update but that's
where i'm at
cool
okay uh peter yeah i'm next i guess
uh so i have been working still on the
thing that i
got working last week with the abilities
to put
pretty much most of lotus into a single
database
cut it to a performance envelope where
it can actually be used going forward
and backwards it can actually
uh go over a bunch of you know old
states and
and ingest them at a reasonable time
unfortunately the
current variant is fast and
wrong in terms of the deadlocks quite
often
and i'm working on
solving that uh and yeah other than that
the initial um
tests from other people have been pretty
positive uh
you basically get a full falcon node
of sorts uh within like an hour from
start to finish which is which is nice
uh with with all the with all the data
that we have
um and yeah the only thing i'm kind of
waiting on is still input from rad if it
kind of gave you what you needed to to
work with things
uh we don't have to do this on the call
and yeah hopefully this week i'll have
another
uh try midweek to get mainnet
what include the new code and see how
that goes
that's all i have
who would have guessed 12 months ago
that so much of the team's time would be
spent
on sequel at this point in time uh
eric here up next
so i also was doing a little more
wrap-up work on
some of these little research spikes of
can we make nicer
apis to crank out data with go ipld
prime and
so yeah daniel and i kind of both did
our own little thing on this and i think
they're both really interesting
mine's the one that shoves more errors
in your face
so we both got pr's out for these now
and i think we'll merge above
it's gonna be cool um
i had i should write this up in issues
on github but the thing that rod
mentioned earlier i had a very similar
thought about the um
the strategy of trying to use more
panics for this
it it gets into this situation that
almost
feels like it reminds me a little bit of
the what color is your functioning
problem
which is a much worse problem
it's a cleverly named blog post that's
talking about async features and
i think mostly javascript but it's a
pattern that i sometimes look at in apis
like do i have
functions that when i compose them i'm
going to have to mentally start tagging
them with different
colors to see if they're going to
compose correctly and
apis that panic sometimes
kind of hit this for me
it's like whether or not you won't rely
on the methods signature for whether or
not
this operation can error in some way you
will have to read the docs
and possibly the body of it to see if it
might panic
and those can get a little weird
and so like you you can if you have
maybe strong
enough conventions you have like okay i
have this function at the top level and
then everything inside of it may panic
and i'll
i will know this and then
like sometimes that works but then
so like what rob was suggesting where
you have this situation where you
you might need to know if you've had an
error part way through for some other
like logical interaction reason
um then if you need to do that
now you have to invoke the color model
in your head again right
and you'll also probably
if you have this pattern that's trying
to help you by this top level function
will always be doing the error gathering
um then you end up seeing that top level
function
in several places and now your
indentation has two meanings in one
place
in this quip example anyway in one place
the indentation means
my data tree structure is similarly
having a deeper nesting of children now
but in some places we'd gain an
indentation we need
i have error handling logic here and
you'll be colorizing them in your head
again it's this indentation data
structure or is it aaron
so
those are just thoughts i think that api
still has promise potentially the
thoughts
i have a similar thing in javascript
actually like getting blocks
will throw on not found and sometimes
you just want to know if it's not there
so you end up having to like do try
catches but if you return null instead
which would be cleaner
then you would get other bad errors in
javascript because like mill will just
like
it's an object and so it things happen
with it when you return it and errors
happen other places that are really hard
to debug
so there's just like no good solution to
this like i haven't found something that
i like in javascript for this problem
yet
um so the other stuff that i worked on
this week was
mostly i'm i was trying to
get towards the schema package in guy
pld prime
using the schema dmt package
which is a reminder an acronym for data
model tree and this is
what i call the package that is the
output of code gen
using the schema schema so that package
can
recognize like a json schema document
and give you
the thing
and so the quest purpose here is by
bringing those two things together we
would then be able to
process a json schema document and like
run the darm code generator for it and
like hide all of that right now there's
this
very lfo warning temporary api for
constructing the schema information
programmatically and we don't really
want to show people that we want them to
give us the darn json document
we'll work with it and then give them
the result
so this is not the first time i've like
done a jousting run at this and i hoped
it was going to be the last time but
it's not the previous approach has
flunked out
i thought that we could approach this by
writing really thin wrappers around the
schema dmt package
so like 99 of your data would still be
held in these generated types and we'd
write these really thin wrappers for the
couple of things that are like
graph properties and need more pointers
and
and then it'll be fine and so this would
result in like lots of immutability
properties for free
it would result in me writing not so
much darn code because it would
not be redundant um it just seemed like
a nice way to go
and it doesn't work because golang has
an import cycle detector
and generated code implements
schema.typed node
so to have the schema package refer to
this package of generated code in order
to implement its own stuff
is a big old wonk nope sad trombone
just i had a really really
sad day so um
and danielle i talked about the
different ways to approach this we came
up with a lot of different ideas some of
them
more complex than others uh clever
i don't know um the thing that i'm
thinking of going with now is
trying to minimize complexity um
some of the most fancy things we came up
with were trying to use
um the aliasing feature of going to make
the cycles go away and
those all were genius but kind of scary
so
what i'm thinking now is we'll have
roughly three packages
one of them is the schema dmt package as
before so that processes the raw json
data
a schema compiler package and that will
still have exported functions which you
can use to programmatically create this
fully ratified information
and then the schema package itself will
just be interfaces
and this drives me nuts as the person
writing the code
because the inside of a bunch of these
packages is super honkingly redundant
the schema compiler package will have
all of these going native structs that i
have to write again
which are almost exactly identical to
the generated dmt structures and i'm
just so
totally fine with this
but um import cycles so like i
just this is this is what we have to do
apparently so
when i finally issue this pr it's going
to also just come with tons of caveats
in the documentation like any other go
developer who's using the codegen tools
please don't do what we're doing here
because we're doing this for
cycle detector avoidance and literally
no one else
ever will have this problem please do
not use this as an example
so i'm still granting some of that out
it's probably about 85
done should finish the next couple of
days i hope
and that's about it that sunk a lot of
my week
fun fun um
okay din will carson neither of you want
to add any
any updates of interesting things you've
done ipl related this week
not much directly ipld from me in the
past week
um at some point i will
return to graphql stage if world once
actors v3 settles out and help with that
update that's
probably the main thing
um i pushed a pr on
this hey what if we use bitswap to
download huge blocks thing
um would would appreciate some thoughts
the two biggest things are
this like i think it double checking the
security properties it's basically can
shot 256
deal with uh what they call
like free collisions um or not
and then the other is like is this the
right thing
to do or like is this something that if
we did
we should sort of hide under the covers
or like
you know tell people this is a good
thing to do like
instead of sharing and that would mean
that you know instead of sharing the
uh dag identifier for your
for your file you would share the
canonical identifier for your file
so would you have thoughts on that then
than
the pr okay i've dropped that
link in the notes
is that a public repo i think so yeah
yeah okay um
casa anything from you uh well i'm
mostly
just here for the just just lurk in the
background but
uh that's fine yeah so i'll leave it at
that oh there is some exciting stuff but
i'll wait until i have made a little
more
progress there cool cool
um are there is there any other headline
items we want to put including this
meeting
um are we going to merge straight into
this next meeting
michael or is that a separate thing no
well let's just let's keep the the
recording going
yeah you know do another recording that
would be annoying
um okay so look i'm going to close this
meeting out or do you want to take notes
on this next thing as well
um we can just include it as part of
this meeting it's fine
that's easier um okay yeah i mean like i
said like originally it was its own
thing because i i wanted to get
some separate guidance to finish it up
but it's actually like i made it
it like already works now so i don't i
don't need that um
i really just need to know like does
this make sense to everybody is like the
way that i feel you should do block
encryption and should be added to
everything so
um i had a long chat with carson on
friday about how they do
encryption and some of the challenges um
and what i really wanted to figure out
was like how
do we in ipld and then also in ip sql
how do i add
just sort of like the this single layer
of encryption not like
the whole sort of replication key and
all the key management but literally
just like
how do i do the block layer encryption
stuff
um and i think like we had we'd gotten
into some weird
kind of recursive mental loops that were
hard to get out of
one was like we were really assuming
that there was going to have to be some
kind of
key negotiation in the link loader um
and that that was going to like
potentially you were going to need to
actually look up the key in the link
loader
um in order to traverse through this
stuff um
and another problem is that like i think
just conceptually
we we've been thinking about block
storage kind of the wrong way
like because we tend to use ipfs as a
reference point for block for a block
store
we're we're taking all of these other
semantics about ipfs along with us and
assuming that that's how block
access works like we really need like in
order to really build applications and
build reliable services and to build
data structures that you manipulate
we really need to think of block storage
as like the lowest level possible
primitive like it needs to function
basically like a device driver
like like it's a it's like a syscall
where i'd say this address and you give
me back data
like it has to be sort of on some level
like we
we sometimes need it to be that reliable
right
um whereas like in fps when you store a
block like other things are happening
like you're sharing that block on a
network
like it's it's basically publicized now
there's all of these other things you
have to worry about in terms of leaking
and it's really just not very realistic
for me to like
build a data structure that works
unencrypted like that
and then also make that data structure
work encrypted
if i can't just access unencrypted
blocks out of the store
right like i actually need those to
already be unencrypted or like have some
kind of scheme for that
um so what i ended up building
um actually talking with carson was like
all you need are codecs for
major encryption ciphers so like what i
have right now
is just aes gcn so you have a cid with a
multi codec that says this is aesgcm
and there's basically a codec for that
that says that that
understands that block format so it says
the first 16 bytes
are the initializing vector and the rest
of it is the cipher
so in terms of data model what that
codec returns you is like a struct with
the initial vector and the
encrypted bytes so the data model layer
that's all that you see right like you
can't traverse into them you don't see
the links or anything else like that's
all that you get
but that codec ships with
an encryption and decryption function
that you call separately
and when you call that encryption and
decrypt when you call these encryption
decryption functions
they have they also have a block format
specified
for the unencrypted state and this is so
that i can call encrypt or de-encrypt
with a key and then i can pass it the
initializing vector and the bytes
from the from the prior codec right um
and what that's going to return me is a
new struct with cid
and bytes so that that's where the
unencrypted block format comes in right
so it does the d and
it does the d encryption understand the
initializing vector the key and the
bytes
and then it takes that whole blob and it
it parses out the cid from the rest of
the bytes and it returns that instruct
essentially um so you always so
the key information is completely out of
band um and is applied separately
and all of these blocks work perfectly
at a data model layer for ipfs and for
everybody else when they're trying to
replicate their them unencrypted like if
you want to encrypt like
all the blocks for a database or for a
query or whatever you just create an
unencrypted graph over it
and as long as that unencrypted graph
like
doesn't preserve any ordering from the
initial graph like there's no way to
tell what that data is really
um and then you just need to make sure
that you keep a reference for the
unencrypted sorry for the encrypted cid
of the root node because you're going to
lose that reference if you put it car
file or something else or you have some
other graph over it
so that's what ipsql does when you
export an encrypted car file
it uses a chunky tree uh cid set to
create like a big graph
over that data and then it puts that in
a new struct
along with the root the other root
reference and then that block
is the root of the car file and so when
i say decrypt
equals key with ip sql it knows okay
this car file is going to be encrypted
i'll pass through the whole structure
grab all of the
um blocks that have this multi-codec
and then all the blocks with that
multi-codec i'm going to decrypt this
key
i'm going to take the encrypted block
and we're going to put it
in a private block store which is
usually just in memory
but i put that in a private block store
in memory and then that's what i query
and so i have all the same code to query
that as i have to
query any other graph there's nothing
special the nice thing about this block
format and this way of doing things is
like
one it gives codex it gives us a way to
write codex for encryption
that include the decryption program
alongside the rest of kodak
and the standardizes the format two is
that um it doesn't have an opinion
about how to do all of the other
encryption layers right
so if you want to rewrite a graph so
that all the links are encrypted in the
graph like not what i'm doing you can do
that with this format
like it's the same there's the same
layering on it it's fine
or you can do what i'm doing it doesn't
take into consideration like all of
these other
replication key semantics because that's
all going to be implemented as a layer
on top of this anyway
um and it doesn't and it doesn't have to
dive into keyman again
because the key is applied completely
out of band
so if you want to do if you want to have
information about how to do key lookups
you just encode that into the graph like
that information is going to be wherever
it needs to be for that use case
and that's agnostic of ipld like that's
a separate operation that you're doing
um
so i like i i hope that makes sense uh
that was a lot of information very
quickly if you want to like unwind this
and talk about
other points like i'm happy to but like
this is something that like
literally this week i can go and
implement
in js multi formats it can be part of
our regular block api there can be
codecs for all the aes functions that
are in the browser and in node
and we can do the same thing and go for
the prime in like a week right like
these are
really simple codecs right all of the
encryption like
all the hard parts of the encryption are
like in standard libraries um we
shouldn't add anything that's not in the
same libraries and we can just sort of
ship
ipld encryption like within the month
it doesn't scale very nicely it doesn't
like to very large data sets
because if you're opening up a block
store you say here's my key
give me the private block store and
that's a lot of blocks and it's got to
do initialization of
scanning through everything decrypting
everything and copying them
that code it's only as expensive as it
needs to be because
those encrypted blocks as long as
they're for the same key will have the
same cid
so if you if you're taking these car
files and you're putting them into
a public block store or like the like
one of these box stores you're going to
know
all the cids you've already imported um
and then
in the and then you're going to put them
in the private block store which also
has deduplication
so i mean there's no you could make a
private block store for the unencrypted
data that is on disk right like you
could have an encrypted disk there's
there's other ways of encrypting that
data to keep it safe
it doesn't have to be in them um it's
just like the easy way to do this right
now
and and my
just wanted to throw out there's a
security meetup
on wednesday that maybe is worth seeing
various people's thoughts on what they
want out of ipfs security
in 2021 they came out of ipfs's planning
process i think like six out of the
eight
of the eight things that people want to
talk about are basically signing and
encrypting ipld data
so okay so um i
i can't be at an at the first hour of
this meeting
so um it's yeah it's too early you can
it'll be recorded you can watch it yeah
yeah it's not so bad anyway because i
think the first hour is supposed is
going to be mostly introductions
from the various like textiles going to
be their visions giving some
feedback a bunch of like preliminary
stuff so you might not miss it much
and just some context for the other
people on the call
what you just described here i i do have
a few questions about some of this
like struck parsing stuff but
it's very well i mean we had the
conversation on friday but like
it's very similar to what we landed on
for that the lowest level
encryption at the block layer
um and then we have some like additional
layers
on top of that for the threads and like
it's and so sander already has a bunch
of go code
that plays like that pulls apart you
know ipld
and does all this wrapping and blah blah
so like
not only does it seem like a good idea
just from how you're describing it but
like it's
you know it's like practically just does
kind of
like work the biggest problem something
i mentioned on friday was
you know you're trying to do like you're
trying to do encrypted data using ipld
structures
and you want that to be kind of secure
and safe
but at the same time you want someone to
be able to like
pin those blocks for you and replicate
them
and those are two like sort of opposing
forces but it's the second you take this
like you know
this the set object where like the
relationship between the blocks is gone
um you know you kind of are starting to
solve that and that's pretty magical
um from our perspective like from
textile where we're trying to like flush
things to file coins
you know we can take that right our file
and just go with this yeah
that's and so we actually like hit this
face on like a few weeks ago where
our all the way we were doing things
before where we kind of like renamed
we encrypted links and everything and
then basically created like these
top level bundles you end up having to
like re-walk that
a ton of times and just like blast all
those blocks and that's just like crazy
talk
so yeah it seems like in general
where we're landing with like
replication patterns
is that you know i want to do a query
for somebody
with somebody that has the data and then
what i want
is like those c ids like that set
given back to me in some kind of a
package right um
and so the nice thing about like the way
that i did this in fb sequel is that
like you do the query you get a set of
cids
you get a graph that just connects all
those together but it doesn't know how
they're connected so it's it's
anonymized or whatever
yeah that's great yeah and then but you
can pin that graph
now and and if you were going to create
a replication cue
like create that over this and you're
doing it for this replicatable set
right um it and whereas like if you
don't do this what you end up with is
just like a bunch of round trips because
you can't
share the final key to look at the links
like the the underlying link with the
replica with the replicator
right um yeah so
just one point of clarification so in
the in when you're encrypting
like an atomic encryption for a block
you'll be so i don't know i've got some
arbitrary ipld structure
i take the you're encrypting the like
encoded bytes
of that yes and the city
and and the cid okay yeah okay so then
that's everything you need to basically
like pull that apart and stick it in
your block store
yeah the the the unencrypted block
format is uh length of cid
cid bytes but the bytes of the actual
encoded
but yeah and so like when they come out
of that when they come out of the
decryption function
it's just the cid and the bytes and then
you've got to go get the kodak
to decode that sure and whatever the
codec the cnd says
eric brought this up like earlier today
but like the cool thing about this is
that like
that just transparently allows as many
layers as you want right because if that
if that cid says oh this is a different
encrypted
different layer of encryption then yeah
and so you can like
you know end up re-encrypting things um
that you happen to have in your graph
without even knowing they were
necessarily encrypted before
it just sort of like transparently works
right
so i there's like a lot of info
uh last little bit and i probably have
not processed all of it but i want to
see if i got like some of the bigger
points
which is you know i have i have a graph
i want some level of encryption on the
graph so
i encrypt all of the nodes individually
with the same key then i create a
manifest file
that links to all the blocks as if they
were just a bag of blocks
and then i send that that graph around
and this is the plan right is that
is that about so that's
that's one of the use cases right like i
think the
the nice thing about doing the
encryption this way sort of using multi
codecs and cds
is that that's just like it you can
compose into that
but you don't necessarily have to do
that like you can
you can come up with other schemes for
doing this as well
like that's like a good idea and like
we're gonna do that uh but like
like how that like for instance how that
manifest looks
no no opinions right like as long as
like it's a graph that's connected and
viewable
like in unencrypted to connect
everything together then it'll replicate
around right um you don't even need to
codex or anything like
i'm using a chunky trees thing that
nobody has an implementation of but me
but it doesn't matter ipfs will parse it
right and i have just for some
additional context there
fission and pure ghosts
are using something called a crypt tree
and
this is this very specific
implementation of basically that
piece of the puzzle where it does like a
bunch of metadata like obsidian to avoid
like leaking anything
and they also have a structure which
jumbles up the connections between all
the blocks but still allows you to
now the vision you can't do the mod you
can't do the manifest right
because a manifest will expose the size
of the file
well they yeah so this is what we're
going to meet about tomorrow because
according to
um
and there's some interesting work
they've done there to
try to avoid leaking much information
there too like you can't get deep enough
into that manifest to learn much about
any part of the graph that you don't
actually explicitly have permission to
see
something like that it's it's some form
of magic so i will learn about it more
tomorrow but
yeah yeah i think the overall tone that
we're going to come to with a lot of
this stuff
is we're going to try to make some
really good recommendations and like
some vocabulary for describing these
common patterns
that's that's like what the community
wants and that's actually what i really
want to get out of this next
few meetings is like there's no right
way to do it but a couple of good
recommendations would be fantastic
yep and it seems like some of this
matter
manifest stuff is is a really
common uh approach with lots of
different implementations
and like with the specific understood
application
of making sure pinning and other forms
of recursive walk over the cleartext
component provides some value
those things seem to be reusable and at
the same time it seems like
a lot of these different implementations
that applications are making
are not
when we're when we're programming when
we're creating specs it's always
important to wonder whether something is
coincidentally divergent or if like no
actually there's a reason for these
things to specialize in different
directions
um and i think some of these things
actually do have reasons to specialize
in different directions like in some
applications you're going to care
a ton about making sure that clear text
manifest leaks
nothing and at the same time in general
that's probably not going to come for
free
it probably comes at the cost of
significant algorithmic complexity and
like sometimes maybe performance
complexity because you'll be doing these
different rebalancing operations in the
middle to hide things and like
maybe there's padding and trying to hide
especially in metadata about
size in a distributed context like we
have here is
really touchy so yeah having lots of
different things going to the space and
trying to find just a few pieces of
common vocab seems really good
i'm excited about this yeah i think the
thing that i want to get to
is like i want ipld to ship with aes
block level encryption
so that all of these systems can be
built and they're not like either
forking or opting out of or just like
not being able to use any of the other
iplt tooling because that's kind of
what's starting to happen
right where like these things are
getting sufficiently advanced like
they're they're you know sticking things
into these layers and so this is like a
nice kind of clean way to say like oh no
here here's like
the tool to do this part of that and
then
map all of your other stuff on top of it
like that's fine
why is this different sorry go ahead
darren
maybe i'll answer that the one thing
that i found the most distinctive and
interesting about what michael's been
talking about here
today is we were talking about it
earlier
the fact that this recurses
cleanly is actually like really a good
good indicator
by using the specification of okay we're
going to
use multi-codec indicators to include
encryption codecs
and our definition of
we're going to use our very methodical
definition of codec and ipld now right
the codec must transform binary data to
some data model representation
and that should take no additional
parameters right
other than the multi-codec indicator so
the definition that we're working with
now is
when you use one of these encryption
cipher
codecs the data level representation
that it produces
is only the separation of like here's
the iv component
here's the rest of the cipher text it
does not perform
single step decryption because that
would actually be incompatible with our
definition of codec because it would
require more parameters etc it would
like
[ __ ] with things so this definition of
just decomposing it into these other
ciphertext primitives is actually really
clean and clear and
doesn't [ __ ] with any of our other
definitions
and then using feature detection as an
intentional step
on top of that to say ah this is an
encryption codec
here's another function that is
available to you now wire your key into
this
and doing that all under feature
detection ages
that still works really cleanly and then
now you have another method which is
going to give you another data model
representation that is the clear text
and so we
have successfully avoided something
that's been a big problem with a lot of
these proposals before which is like you
get this awkward problem where it's like
okay what if i do want the cipher text
like a lot of previous proposals have
really tripped and fallen on that
so yeah having that solved nicely is
just
i think this is this is good
yeah okay cool all right
but you do so sorry i'm still stuck on
the scaling thing
you do lose your a lot of graph
primitives
um for the unencrypted case though don't
you like you you
when you're dealing with large data sets
and you've got this manifesto you
need all or nothing in order to look at
your data that's correct
right you need everything so if i'm
if you have the room you should be okay
okay but if you export me wikipedia
in your encrypted scheme and give me a
manifest of all the blocks
and i want to look up a page i need all
of the blocks to get to that page
no no so like say that's a car file so
the car file format that i did
it it's going to have um the top level
objects going to tell you what the
encrypted block address is for the route
so you can just ask for that one right
and then
and then parse and then unencrypt it and
look at what
the links are oh no no you're right
those are to the unencrypted state
there's no way to
that's between them you're right you're
right yeah you do need the whole thing
you need the whole proof so so
okay so just going on that but but
that is specific to the way that i did
this though if you were to do
um if you were to actually just encrypt
the whole graph as a link layer
you can use the same codec and then you
would actually what you would get back
would be
um the encrypted address instead like
you would you could be able you could
build that graph that way
and have encrypted addresses in there as
well you could rewrite the whole graph
um it's just worth being careful there
in terms of
thinking about the leakage of
access patterns and stuff like that like
there's there there are dangers and
reasons why
you also depending on use case right
like
you're misinterpreting so like the the
link is not visible
in the encrypted state yes but if i ask
for one thing and then another block
and you can see spiders through it you
start to get structure
of the yeah i can literally look at the
what i wouldn't mind seeing is a
enumeration of the trade-offs
um and i think that would get to uh
that would get to some of the heart of
what this is proposing and why it is
better
or worse than other things like what
what are we because
encryption will involve trade with some
severe trade-offs regardless of how we
do it um
and so it would be nice to see that and
then look at the trade-offs compared to
other things like i would say one of the
trade-offs
that is in the pro here would be
complexity this seems like a
actually a less complex solution than
some of the other things we've discussed
in the past where we sort of spiral into
these ideas about how to
embed these you know the key management
in like that's
complexity that we would be nice to
avoid so i guess the other part of it
in in the same like trade-offs in
general there's some that we can do but
i think the other
side of that is having it rooted in
specific use cases so
if you've got two people who both have
the keys and are sinking
like they can efficiently sync the delta
in in
this world still right because they can
come up with a delta manifest of
the blocks that have changed and then
sync that additional subcard that'll be
small
another thing too is that but that's
dependent on a specific use case versus
one person has the whole thing another
person's trying to do a view of a small
subset
of a large data set without having the
whole subset right so
if we can come up with a few of these
use cases that we see as
primary you know things we're enabling
and then think about how
encryption affects those that might also
be useful in terms of
how we frame trade-offs another one of
these is like random access
so like if
there you know there's there's like this
concept in ipfs that
that seems to have not been like i don't
know
didn't seem like it was thought all the
way through to the conclusion
was that if you're supposed to make
like random access available to every
block
of every graph everywhere
that's like an insane number of objects
right
and it seems likely that the number of
things that you actually want is smaller
than that and you can like
group them up in some way but if i start
encrypting blocks
and then i strip all the structures out
of the blocks
then finding who i can even ask for
things becomes much more complicated
because if i want to take like
a chunk of the encrypted graph and put
it in another graph
i'm like never like how am i going to
find things um
and it seems like it's probably however
i find things is going to be an access
pattern leak
yeah what this is this is like a nature
of the beast if you're doing any degree
of encryption this is
like you can't magic that away at any
amount of wand waving at all well you i
mean you can magic it away
if the thing you care about is i don't
want people to read my data
and the thing you're not worried about
is i don't want people to know
that i access this encrypted data or i
don't want people to know how big the
data was
right if i just don't want people to
read my stuff this is not a problem
right yep so i think we're going to have
to figure out
where we want to draw the line between
like ipld libraries
and our specs for some of this codex
stuff
will have actual features that we will
want to be clear about and specify
um and then at some point these things
turn into application level logic
like maybe we should include some
description of these potential use cases
and trade-offs
that we know will be encountered
and we might want to provide some of
that in the ipld documentation maybe
especially if it helps us describe
vocabulary that helps people interact
that's that's when it's really worth it
to be in our documentation right
um but like if the far end of the
spectrum is
we write cryptography introduction
textbooks
on the ipld docs site and i think that
we probably don't want to do that
because
like just i mean those cryptography
yeah that's cryptography like
um like i have a bunch of crypto
textbook material
still on my desktop since i've had these
courses
never left my desktop but do i want to
regurgitate these things into the ipld
documentation at full granularity
no i do not it is a subtle topic we
should have
boundaries to how much breath we give it
um
like people are just going to we're
going to have to
tell our users that they will need to be
aware of problems like
information leakage from access patterns
and
we can cover that in the introductory
way to make sure that the problem
knowledge is out there but i think can
we prescribe solutions to that in
general
holy crap uh not in general no
like so i mean in terms of trade-offs
i've heard a lot of trade-offs
between different patterns that are on
top of this
block layer encryption standard but like
i'm not seeing any trade-offs with the
block level
thing itself like what we're actually
proposing implementing
like i haven't internet mainly because i
don't really know of an alternative that
only does this
right like um you know like we're not
encoding information about the key we're
not involved in
key management or anything like that
like so many problems have kind of been
deferred
that it's not clear that there like
really is a trade-off to write up
at this layer it's just as soon as we
prescribe how to use it we have to talk
about trade-offs between different
methods
i agree i mean this is just the
two-step thing right i mean because if
the manifest is just a
like is allowed to be like a shadow
graph of the other one
sure but even the manifest is like the
manifest
is entirely in a layer above this though
um like above this sort of encrypted
codec layer
[Music]
yeah and i i it's so cool cid is there
since encrypted blocks have cids that
are just like cids two unencrypted
blocks
if you um you know re-encode the graph
to be in
to use encrypted links or just all plain
and create graphs over them
like none of that changes how the block
level
part of it works right
how the block level codec works
this is because you're you're in coding
like when you
when i say like i want you know i want
the root block
then i
i fetch i fetch the root block i
decrypt it into its like manifest form
then and then so yeah i
i fetch yeah i guess i fetch it into the
manifest form and then i
run what looks like a normal operation
because now the function that i've
provided it is like
a special decryption function that is
allowed to take a key
as opposed to the other ipld layers
which are not allowed to take a key
right right you're gonna have to decrypt
that data in order to look at the
manifest anyway so that's already in
operation that like is not a regular
ipfs traversal operation right it's like
you're applying a key to this data in
order to decrypt it and then when you
decrypt it you would go like okay what
do i do with this data now
and that's where all these semantics
come in that seems like that so that
does then like have trade-offs right as
opposed to if i
just encrypted all of the blocks right
and i
was doing the gross thing where i passed
a context through every operation and
the context can carry a key
and if the key is an aes key and it
looks like it's like a
aes often it looks like it's you know an
aes codec
then i apply the decryption thing then
it means that i can
i can do like you know root slash a
slash b
c and i like get the data out
whereas here i need to like pause and
then like do another thing
right
unless i missed it so
there are different ways you would
interact with it whether or not you did
this atomic
encryption of each block or the layers
on top
but in terms of how you create the
manifest file and how you tie those
together
for the replicator key that's basically
the same
like it's a little bit easier because
you can just point at the root node and
then
you you know that it's going to be able
to traverse through
um or no no wait no that's that's
another key so no no you still need to
sum everything up into a manifest file
even if you do the full
graph
so i'm saying like we're talking about
like trade-offs and you were saying you
didn't really see
how this this like two-step process led
to any trade-offs and i'm saying that
you know the two-step process like duh
is what leads to trade-offs
it's it's the it's the single step of
encrypting a block and getting an
address that you know is an encrypted
block and then knowing sort of like
this is how to decode that format into
into a decrypted state
that part can be standardized and
someone agnostic of all the other
concerns
right
the key insight about the api for this
encryption stuff is
like yes we can use multi-codec
indicators in a way that is not
conflicted with our definition of codex
being unparameterized and
by having the codec behavior be defined
as actually still yielding you
ciphertext
we removed all of the ambiguity around
what happens to the poor poor ciphertext
if i wanted to see it which has been a
problem for all of our previous
crypto proposals so i actually think
this is basically unambiguously good
like i don't think we've turned through
all of the code
api details especially about how we'll
do
key management if you've got like a
large graph there's heterogeneous keys
and you're trying to walk through this
in a
way that is easy for you to code um
i don't think we've solved that at all
but i also don't think that that's
generally solvable because you get
deep into application logic territory
there instantaneously so the best thing
we can do is figure out what apis to
give people and
play that by ear from there on out but
like
can we use multi-codec indicators like
previous to this proposal i would have
said i don't know and been like whoa
nelly
and now that we have this proposal i'm
looking at it i'm thinking
yeah actually i can i can sign off on
this i think
so that's what's new in my mind today
let's just make sure i'm like
understanding what
this is separating the way this is
working is by
by saying that all of the
all of the path traversals or selectors
i might want to apply
on a decrypted version of the graph can
only apply at the graph once it's been
decrypted
and so basically say get an encrypted
graph decrypt it then run selectors
which is different from the other
proposals which allowed running
selectors on encrypted graphs
which is fine but only if they involved
some sort of
extremely complicated homomorphic
encryption which
is like a field of research not really i
mean you could
write if the graph like i mean depending
on how you want to yeah i mean if you're
just following the graph paths and
you're decrypting every time you walk
down a block
then then you can do that
you can still do that here you have to
you have to do it in two steps first
right
it needs to take a parameter in that
case yeah
yeah that was the which is the bad thing
yes that was the bad thing and then the
good thing was that you could
well it also wasn't very well defined
because the
like you would still have all the
problems like if you have heterogeneous
keys in there
then you still have all of a lot of
unanswered api questions there
like just into a codec parameter didn't
actually
help either okay so so like the way that
i did this is yes you just
unencrypt everything and then you can do
the traversal normally if you didn't do
that
if you if you rewrote the graph to the
links
and you wanted to say like add an api
to the link loader so that it understood
this key
you still want a multi-codec identifier
that tells you if it's an encrypted
block or not so that you know when you
hit that block if you do this dance and
apply the key and swap out the reference
to the block
right so like you still actually
need the same block level standard along
with the multi-codec identifier to know
when to apply the key and when not
yes you need yes you need some
identifier sure why not be a multi-codec
but that doesn't necessarily
answer like the api like
well now if you if you're saying how do
you expect people to interact with
no no but what you're saying in that
case though is i want you to treat
encrypted blocks as if they are the
unencrypted state
so rather than traversing the data model
into the decoded
encrypted block which is just like the
iv and the bytes
like actually run the decryption program
um and so where you're telling the graph
traversal engine is like
yes like treat any encrypted block like
this and now you have like a multi-coded
range that you know is encrypted and so
that's what you're checking
when you decide to apply the key or not
or aside to call some function
to find the key right
yeah the thing that makes me really
really happy about this is actually that
now
doing things like applying a selector to
ciphertext
is actually really well defined with
this proposal because it
applies to the dang ciphertext it's just
it's good
we previously didn't have a story about
how we expected to do that with any of
the other
encryption discussions we've had people
have always wanted to propose okay yeah
we'll just make encryption
uh a codec and then by the time that the
codec runs you will have the clear text
and like that is actually a bad idea
because if you wanted to write a
selector which worked over the cipher
text
you can't like it's undefined it's not
just
like api hard it's literally not defined
and so now with this definition of
actually the codec just
like maybe chunks up the ciphertext into
iv and ciphertext body
that's defined is it particularly useful
well
i that's certainly debatable but i like
things i think the more useful part is
that like
the unencrypted state also has a defined
block format that separates out the cd
in the block
because that's like the other annoying
step in encoding all this stuff
is like it's like how to how to how to
like actually
deal with the decrypted state to turn it
back into the cid and the bytes
um yeah but i mean like in you know like
in javascript this is going to be as
easy
as like i decode a block and if it
hasn't decrypt properly
along with value then i can pass that a
key and get the decrypted state
right and get the decrement to see idiom
bytes like that's like this can be like
super super easy
we'll probably have to start writing
some actual like text we can reference
in order to
advance this discussion a lot further i
guess i'll write something up over the
next few days
so that even when the meeting starts if
i'm not in it at eight then people can
see it
cool i think we're good
[Music]
happen with these exciting calls more
often yeah yeah i mean it's open every
week so you can just pop
yeah you're welcome to join us carson um
your input would probably be
very valuable uh each week same time
same channel
um is there anything else we want to
cover before we close um
peter did you want to do the float thing
i think that was you
nah i get i guess getting so late i i
basically just wanted to race again like
why are we so obsessed with you know
with keeping clothes
at the same time we're documenting like
yeah it is you know not supported except
this and this and this well pretty much
all our codecs fully encode and decode
them but we don't support this stuff so
don't rely on it like like
it's that's not the spec no we do floats
don't we
don't we do floats pretty consistently
we're diluted
it's more like like we
we call out in uh in in a lot of our
like um
documentation that we're that we're like
putting out that uh
this is not a thing that is that like
floats are pretty much antithetical to
you know what we're trying to do with
ipld with
uh you know with uh immutability and one
word is to represent something
and we almost go like actually i think
i wrote in in the thing that you
submitted there was
a sentence do not use this so why
don't we just say you know just
we discourage them you know they're here
as a historical artifact we
learned our lesson don't use them going
forward like why
aren't we entertaining this instead of
the pr's as well
so here's my thinking on that and so i'm
just going to get the wording that i
used
uh in there which was so we support it
and we just put floats there there's not
do not
consider this to be a one-to-one mapping
to ie754 that's not how
floats are in the data model um oh
there's comments in there
nice um
and it is recommended float values be
avoided when developing systems on ipld
and content addressable systems in
general due to the broad scope for
introducing variability in the byte
representations
alternative methods for encoding
fractional numbers with greater position
and less variability should be
considered where possible um
my thoughts are that this is very use
case dependent
um there are plenty of use cases where
convergence on bytes for data is not
important
and you just want to spit out data and
transfer it
and have a content address for it and so
what if you could do the same thing in
different forms
um and so this is like this is like a
narrow side concern
it's one of the major concerns we have
but it's a narrow one
for a specific set of use cases but
there's a lot of use cases where that's
not a concern
and people won't care i okay i want to
encode 1.1 and who cares if it's
not something i can do accurately um
and i just need to get roughly there i
and i used to work in actually
i did a lot of work in um uh
some genetic um
one of my previous lives was in it was
animal genetics and we used to
measure uh animals by all these genetic
parameters
and we would have these floating point
numbers around for everything and
there was this point at which like the
precision you needed was pretty low and
so i was like yeah as long as it's
in the right direction that's fine and
um
and there's a lot of people out there
with a lot of data where that doesn't
matter so
the precision is not like your single
precision be fine
and and roughly the same thing you don't
need
true equality and i don't need
convergence of my data forms onto the
same cid for the same data that's just
not a thing
so i think that's where i'm getting at
with those comments and it's really up
to the user to decide and that's that's
the spirit of ipld i think we're
pursuing
if we were to rule it out and say look
this is just not something we're going
to support into the future
i i think we're really marginalizing a
broad swathe of a potential user base
that
knows what's best for their use case
better than we do
right but then that then i have the the
the converse question like
if you are in a place where you want to
like shovel
data around that it's like man whatever
you know just just uh
being you know the right the right shape
uh
is ipl this is something we actually
want them to use because like
they're getting all the baggage without
any of the benefits
or for example you know just like what
we were talking about this encryption
stuff like you can't do any of that
without without a very well defined you
know
underlying data model those numbers just
do the same thing so
like well like when you say i feel
either like like i mean
look like this note about using them in
ipld
is is essentially like a warning that
says like look if you
know that you need a high degree of
precision
you're not actually going to get that
between languages period
like languages have a really hard time
like having consistent float
implementations like javascript
especially
and but if you're if you have one
programming language in one system and
you just need to shovel the bytes back
and forth you could just use bytes
right like you you know that that's
going to be consistent with whatever
your implementation is you stick it as a
bytes value instead of using a flow
that's kind of what we're warning people
for it's like
if you can just encode these as your own
bytes and decode them that way you may
end up with much more consistent
behavior
especially between languages
yeah so why don't we say that more
prominently
well and have some ability for any of
our libraries to actually store them and
recover them
like all of our decoders see the seabor
bites and you're going to get a bite
right you're not going to get floats
you're going to have to do manual
no no but js or golang or whatever but
that's my point is that like
golang decoded encode float bytes is
very consistent
and like decode float representation
from cbor
between javascript and then re-encode
back and send it to go
is [ __ ] like like very [ __ ] like it
will convert it to an integer sometimes
if it's the if it's if there's like no
mantissa
so like yeah this is like that um like
that that's why it's better to just
encode them as bytes if you know that's
going to happen right
i think the practical position that we
sort of hang our hats in the vicinity of
is
we have a bunch of codecs that ipld
considers really important
to have good interfaces with that have
floats already in some vague sense
those things don't even agree on what
float means
they definitely don't agree completely
with ieee 7 whatever
they definitely don't consistently agree
with what various programming languages
implement
they do not consistently agree with what
various like silicon
etching like what smart sand does with
floating points because that isn't
consistent between different generations
of smart sand or made on planet earth
like and we are unwilling to claim to
people that these things are not
problems
so we're going to try to read
documents that have this kind of format
in them
and try to present a best effort
way for you to read and operate on that
information
but we are simultaneously going to
really strongly suggest that you not
generate new information of this kind
because
it is so hard to make useful promises
around it
but we're talking we've provided
it's like what happens like i want to
store i want to store and i want to
store like you know i want to start 1.1
right and my data model is bytes and
integers
and strings which are also bytes okay so
i have bytes and integers
are my and c ids and i want to store 1.1
what's my plan because i feel like
will's point was if you say
it's bytes then then
that's like kind of miserable for the
user who says like
you know i path through my thing is like
root field one
field two dot you know
convert from bytes to float
when like ultimately it depends on
two additional factors which is is it
always going to be and go
in which case great you're fine because
it's always and go
or what is like great you've got 1.1 but
is this something where you actually
need to worry about it growing to
infinity or is it going to be like
fairly small rationals if it's fairly
small rationals use two wins and call it
done if it's
you know like at some point if you
if you end up thinking that this is
going to expand up to numbers where
javascript is going to be unhappy and
you actually do care about the precision
you probably want to use bigint or sorry
big float and like
put it in bytes right like the problem
is some custom thing that will be
the same the problem javascript is
bigger than this it's not even a size
issue the issue is that like
the issue is that if i give you 1.1 and
then you hand it to javascript and
javascript
like removes 0.1 from it and then
re-encodes it and send it to you
you're going to get int one you're not
going to get a float anymore
and so like the only way to make that a
consistent float is to encode it as
bytes from go
and then have javascript de-encode that
into float and then if it says oh i have
an integer that i didn't even code as an
ieee float in these bytes then it will
do the right thing and you'll get fights
back
like that's the only way to make that
work between languages actually
but and different different use cases
will
find appropriate uh solutions like in
finance there's
i think most of finance has really
agreed on
we use integers and then just divide
when we want the fractional part and you
can see that through the blockchain
industry
starting with bitcoin where you you
store the very big number and then you
divide it to get the
btc value and file coins doing the same
thing um
you just have a device a consistent
divisor um
and different use like like encoding as
float as a string is not a
bad option either like just depends on
your use case
so i i wonder if there's a lot of
feedback here and i wonder if you could
if if there's more words you want to
include on the
pull request of the data model page go
to that pr and
let's clarify this even more and that
stuff about javascript is probably worth
expanding on a bit in that particular
section even though we already mentioned
it in that page
yeah that then actually asks for you
know can can we put more uh more
examples in
exactly the area that i was asking about
i i think we're actually broadly
agreeing
my stance is we
don't warn people enough don't use it
well and that was that was my goal with
that pull request is because we talk
about it but we
we haven't really said it anywhere
there's no you can't find it in our
documentation yet that we recommend
against it
yeah absolutely yeah go ahead we may
actually want to mention like you know
in in bitcoin and filecoin like the way
that we do floats is like this and
point to those things and say like you
know this is this is like where people
have
sort of landed on how to deal with this
in some of these bigger systems
we don't do floats at all we are
integers only they're big ends but we
have no no
it does do floats that's the point
though it does do floats but it doesn't
mean memory
and it uses it uses the data model for
as integers so it
so far coin uses floats it just doesn't
do them at the serialization layer
it doesn't do floats on the
even in memory because it has integer
division
it does not have subatomic field
division it always runs down
because conceptually it does float it
has floating point values in the sense
that it'll do
it'll divide big numbers by smaller by
other numbers and it maybe
has non-integer numbers would that be
the word that that makes it
not whatever but but it doesn't have no
integer numbers that's my point like
falcon definitely does not
it has it has the fl it has the float it
has floats in the sense that dollars and
cents
has floats when you mainly just you need
to talk about sense like it's that sort
of floats
this seems like one of those areas where
we've again written some docs in specs
but by like just saying
don't use this is insufficient and it
seems like we actually
should provide at least some
recommendations of alternatives because
otherwise people get very
confused reading those documentations
like and we should not
try to answer this question definitively
but like we might include
a paragraph and some bullet points of
like consider using
fixed point math with a known divisor
that is relevant to your context
consider using
multiple numbers for the whole part of
the fractional part
consider implementing fractions
whatever uh
because all of these approaches are
reasonable in some context or another
like
lots of good computing uses the fixed
point approach
um maybe we just need to name the darn
things in our docs because
letting people sing saying don't use
floats and then
hoping somebody finds the right
wikipedia page with the right
idea maybe this isn't working so well
yeah totally i was more getting the
temperature of the group like
are we actually married to floats
sufficiently because like around the way
i read
your pr was like yeah i actually want
people to
look at this part of our data model as
well that's how it came across
well let's change let's fix the wording
up to make it clarify but
there is just in your feedback there is
lingering
um the lingering question of
is it really part of it or is it
essentially deprecated
and i don't i don't have an answer for
that because it's a really good question
because it does feel a bit like it's
deprecated
um not everything's a bug in blockchain
where like millions of dollars are on
the line like it's
sometimes you can just be lazy about it
man
it's cool but but we're trick but we are
we are
kind of treating it like it's a
deprecated feature that we want to put
off to the side like the whole man
and infinity discussion comes back to
that why are we focusing on getting
those things right
if we don't care about it yes
well those like the nan one in
particular and how just like anything
you can't decode is nan
it seems particularly problematic in
light of like how we tend to think about
deterministic codex and because the
truth the truth is
most most systems will deal with ieee
754 and you will get consistent floats
between
systems except in the javascript energy
case you will still be able to talk
about the same number in different
systems
in the majority case that's that's the
truth is this is this is not
entirely unsafe it's not just let's just
record
we'll get a good amount of consistency
among systems
would you would you want to adopt some
of the
specs language around like depending on
what the languages that we let that you
know gets landed on
for four floats
having the libraries that implement this
right now i guess go in javascript like
appropriately warn you if you go near
afloat as in like have the comments on
the functions that handle floats be like
uh maybe think twice c-link
right like specs are great not everyone
reads the specs
not everyone who reads the specs reads
the specs all the way through
um comments on the function that says
like you know
to float that says this works asterisk
please see long asterisk notice that
this didn't happen when you did dot
two integer right um
might might be useful again depending on
whatever it gets landed on
in the spec yeah yeah and it's
because this is the problem with people
not like we put out this text and people
don't read our text because they don't
go to this obscure corner of the
internet that we live in
that we think is really important but no
one else actually cares about um
yeah i mean depending on how forcefully
we want to do it you could do things
like
um it just won't do it until you provide
some kind of override flag
it just seems a bit hostile to go that
far um
so let's just try and get the wording
first right and maybe
after we stew on it we come back with
stronger opinions
okay is there anything else you want to
talk about before we close the meeting
off
this is a long one let's close it
there is a question on youtube um can i
use ipld in
meteorology data analysis sure
yeah that seems good do you need float
you need floats because
my wings causing a hurricane thing is
from
the case study of meteorological data
science in the beginning of computing
and how
precision and floating point numbers
printed out on a tape
caused bad simulation results when they
were fed back in
using different amounts of precision
because they had been printed in a
serial form
meteorology data should not use floating
point numbers
the story in computing and how not to
use floating point numbers
that's awesome this is perfect
and i think about meteorology like a lot
of use cases is that there's a lot of
data involved
and you probably want to persist it over
time so that you have records of it
and these are these are things that ipld
is perfect
i imagine there's a lot of duplication
as well a lot of things that are
referenced over and over again so that's
probably a really idea
they get deduplication free yeah anyway
he says nice so good feedback
okay let's wrap it up thanks for long
meeting everyone good talk